
See below for details about this data set

West KP, Jr., LeClerq SC, Shrestha SR, Wu LS, Pradhan EK, Khatry SK, Katz J,
Adhikari R, Sommer A.  Effects of vitamin A on growth of vitamin A deficient
children: field studies in Nepal.
J Nutr 1997;10:1957-1965.



 

Nepal Data 

Description:

This data contains anthropologic measurements on Nepalease children.  The 
study design called for collecting measurements on 2258 kids at 5 time points, 
spaced approximately 4 months apart (11290 total observations).  However, some
 of the visits contain missing data.  There are 9552 complete records on 2215 
kids. 

To make exploration of these data more feasible we have extracted only the
first 1000 records.

These data represent a subset of a larger study on the impact
of vitamin supplementation on growth.  These children represent the control 
arm of the trial.  

Scientific aims of the study include:

	 
(1) characterize growth patterns of Nepalease children
	 
(2) characterize dependence of growth on covariates specific to the child as age and gender
	 
(3) characterize relationship between growth and maternal covariates
	 
(4) relationship between death and prior growth pattern



Structure: 

The data is in the file  "nepal.dat"  with white space separating the fields.



The following describes the variables:



id:
  code for the child's ID.


age:
  Age of child in months


sex:
  Gender is coded: 1 = male; 2 =  female.


wt:
  Child's weight measured in kilograms.


ht:
  Child's height measured in centimeters.


arm:
  Child's mid upper arm circumference measured in centimeters.


bf:
  Indicates current level of breastfeeding:  0 = none; 1 = <10 times/day;
  2 = 10 or more times/day.


day:

month:

year:
  These 3 items denote the date of the child's visit.  The date is in
  Nepali calendar years - a lunar calendar.


mage:
  Mother's age in years.


lit:
  Indicator of mother's literacy:  0 = no; 1 = yes.


died:
  The number of kids the mother has had that died.


alive:
  The number of kids the mother has ever had born alive (parity).





